Checklist mobile application:
1. Installation/removal/rolling of versions

2. Launching the application (displaying the splash screen)

3. The performance of the main functionality of the application:
• Authorization (by phone number/via social networks/e-mail)
• Registration (by phone number/via social networks/e-mail)
• Onboarding new users
• Validation of required fields
• Navigation between application sections
• Editing data in the user profile
• Payment verification
• Testing filters

4. Correct display of errors

5. Working with files (sending/receiving/viewing)

6. Testing timeouts

7. Testing stubs (no internet connection/no products, etc.)

8. Testing pop-ups, alerts

9. Testing WebView

10. Scroll/swipe elements

11. Testing PUSH notifications

12. Minimizing/expanding the application

13. Different types of connections (cellular/Wi-Fi)

14. Screen orientation (landscape/portrait)

15. Dark/light themes

16. Advertising in the app

17. Sharing content in the social the network

18. Application work in the background

19. Page pagination

20. Privacy policy and other links to documents

21. Correct display of geolocation

22. Information about transactions (checks, etc.)

23. Various payment methods (Google Pay, Apple Pay)

24. Testing sensors (illumination, device temperature, gyroscope, etc.)

25. Testing interruptions (incoming call/SMS/push/alarm/do not disturb mode, etc.)

26. Connecting external devices (memory card/headphones, etc.)

27. Testing permissions (access to camera/microphone/gallery/etc.)

28. User data (passwords) are not transmitted in clear text

29. In the fields with password entry and password confirmation, data is hidden by asterisks

30. All elements in the application are translated into the respective language

31. The texts are protected inside the application and the user in the application settings can set the required language

32. The texts depend on the language in the system settings

33. Texts come from the server

34. Correct display of date formats (YEAR - MONTH - DAY or DAY - MONTH - YEAR)

35. Correct display of time depending on the time zone

36. Correct display of elements on devices with different screen resolutions

37. All fonts meet the requirements

38. All texts are correctly aligned

39. All error messages are correct, without spelling and grammatical errors

40. Correct screen titles

41. There are placeholders in the search lines

42. Inactive elements are displayed in gray

43. Links to documents lead to the corresponding section on the site

44. Animation between transitions

45. Correct return to the previous screen

46. ​​Supports basic gestures when working with touch screens (swipe back, etc.)

47. Pixel Perfect

48. High load of the central processor

49. Out of memory

50. Loading the battery

51. Refusals

52. Low network bandwidth

53. A large number of user interactions with the application

54. The performance of the application on various devices from different manufacturers

55. Application load time

56. Processing requests

57. Data caching

58. Consumption of resources by the application (for example, battery consumption)


Checklist iOS App Store Review Guidelines:
https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/

1. Installing the App on the device

2. Removing the App from the device

3. Hardware compatibility for iPhone/iPad/iMac/Macbook

4. Registration

5. Validation of input fields

6. Screen lock

7. System notification

8. Minimizing the application

9. Change screen orientation

10. Connect/Disconnect headphones

11. Message about connecting the charger

12. Force termination of the application

13. Incoming call

14. Sleep mode

15. Testing navigation

iOS release notes update list:
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/ios-ipados-release-notes

iOS & iPadOS 15.2

1. Record app activity in privacy settings, allowing users to save a summary of data and internet access for apps on their devices

2. StoreKit APIs that present a refund request sheet can be tested with StoreKit Testing in Xcode

3. StoreKit APIs that present a sheet in your app to manage subscriptions can be tested with StoreKit Testing in Xcode

4. New SKTestSession. TimeRate values ​​are available to use in automated tests with the StoreKit Test framework

5. Pay-as-you-go offers no longer appear incorrectly on pay slips when testing subscriptions with StoreKit Testing in Xcode

6. Application "Commands" can now read the contents of the screen

7. iCloud + subscribers can now access and use Hide My Email directly from the Mail app

8. Auto Call can now be set up to use one of two methods for initiating an emergency call: holding the side button together with a volume button, or rapidly pressing the side button multiple times. Both methods now show a longer, 8-second countdown before placing an emergency call

9. Tags can now be bulk renamed and deleted

10. Welcome screen in "Weather"

11. Clothes for "Memoji"

12. New icon for the "Maps" application

13. SharePlay function for FaceTime calls

14. Quick notes on iPad. Now they can be activated by swiping from the lower right corner of the screen

15. Returning the refresh button to the Safari address bar

iOS guidelines checklist:
https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ios/overview/themes/

1. Simple navigation

2. Smooth movement and clear beautiful interface

3. Convenient interface

4. Aesthetic integrity

5. Sequence

6. Display Splash Screen

7. Screen size and orientation

8. Simple and convenient registration/login forms

9. High-quality images

10. Uniform style of icons

11. Color contrast between main font and background

12. Choosing a dark system-wide view

13. Scrolling the tape

14. Welcome screen

15. Screensaver when starting the application



Checklist for the design of Android Applications:
https://developer.android.com/docs/quality-guidelines/core-app-quality

1. There are no offsets of the page elements (the arrangement of the elements corresponds to the declared in the layout)

2. Navigating with gestures to return to the home screen

3. Landscape and portrait orientation (if possible), as well as folding/unfolding

4. There is no text clipping on the pages

5. Display graphics, text, images and other elements of the user interface without noticeable distortion, blurring or pixelation

6. The pages contain all the declared elements

7. Elements do not overlap or "overlap" on top of each other

8. Touch targets are at least 48dp in size

9. There are no responsive design artifacts

10. None of the elements go beyond the boundaries of the screen

12. Display of text and text blocks is acceptable for each of the supported languages

13. There are no wrong word hyphenation inside buttons or icons

14. There is enough space between the text and the surrounding elements

15. App content and all web content support dark theme



Android Apps quality checklist:
https://developer.android.com/quality

1. Successful installation from app store

2. Installing updates does not cause errors

3. Cancellation of the installation occurs correctly, with the removal of all traces of the application

4. Reinstallation after cancellation is possible and successful

5. The application starts when you click on its icon

6. Application management is intuitive

7. The battery consumption corresponds to the load generated by the application

8. No "crashes" of the application and/or unexpected pop-ups

9. The application works after updating the OS

10. The interruption of the application by a phone call is handled correctly

11. When changing the network, the application is not interrupted

12. The application correctly handles multitouch gestures

13. The application correctly handles changing the display scale

14. Reinstallation after cancellation is possible and successful

15. The application is launched by links from other applications